(GH-2816) Document how inventory is loaded (#2837)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/inventory_files.md

  Get-BoltInventory -Targets <TARGET LIST> -Detail
  ```

## Loading inventory

Bolt only loads inventory for commands that accept targeting options (`query`,
`rerun`, and `targets`). For example, Bolt loads inventory when it runs a task
but does not load inventory when it installs modules.

When Bolt loads inventory, it loads the entirety of the inventory, not just
the targets or groups provided to the targeting option. Because of this, it's
important to understand how the inventory is resolved, as loading the entire
inventory can impact performance and result in different target configuration
than you might expect.

For example, the following inventory includes two groups: `ssh` and `winrm`.
Both groups define a target named `server`, which is configured to use a

> different transport and authentication credentials dependening on which group is
> referenced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different transport and different authentication credentials dependening
on which group is referenced:
```

```yaml
# ~/.puppetlabs/bolt/inventory.yaml
groups:
  - name: ssh
    targets:
      - uri: server.example.com
        name: server
        config:
          transport: ssh
          ssh:
            user: root
            password: SSHP@ssword!
  - name: winrm
    targets:
      - uri: server.example.com
        name: server
        config:
          transport: winrm
          winrm:
            user: admin
            password: WinRMP@ssword!
```

If you run a command on the `ssh` group, the `server` target uses the SSH
transport and configuration. However, if you run a command on the `winrm`
group, the `server` target still uses the SSH transport and configuration,
not the WinRM transport and configuration. You can see this by showing
the inventory detail for the `winrm` group:

```shell
$ bolt inventory show --targets winrm --detail

server
  name: server
  uri: server.example.com
  config:
    transport: ssh
    ssh:
      password: SSHP@ssword!
      user: root
  groups:
  - ssh
  - winrm
  - all

...
```

> Even though the command only specifies a single group, the entirety of the
> inventory file is loaded. Because the `server` target is defined in both the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the command only specifies a single group, Bolt loads the entire
inventory file. Because the `server` target is defined in both the
```

`ssh` and `winrm` groups, Bolt merges all of the configuration for the target,
with configuration from definitions earlier in the inventory taking precedence.

> Bolt's merge strategy is covered in more detail in the following section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt's merge strategy is covered in more detail in the [Precedence](#precedence) section.
```

To avoid merging configuration and data for targets with the same URI, you can

> give the targets different names. In the previous example, the targets might
> be named `ssh_server` and `winrm_server` instead of just `server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
give the targets different names. In the previous example, you might
name the targets `ssh_server` and `winrm_server` instead of `server`.
```

name as the plugin. The plugin framework is based on a set of plugin hooks that
are implemented by plugin authors and called by Bolt.

> ### Resolving plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How Bolt resolves plugins
```

> Plugins in an inventory file are resolved at specific times while Bolt is
> running. Plugins used under a `groups` or `targets` key are resolved when the
> inventory is loaded, while plugins under data keys such as `config`, `facts`,
> `features`, and `vars` are resolved only when Bolt runs on a group or target
> that includes that data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt resolves Plugins in an inventory file at specific times:
- Bolt resolves plugins used under a `groups` or `targets` key when
  the inventory is loaded.
- Bolt loads plugins under data keys such as `config`, `facts`,
  `features`, and `vars` when it runs on a group or target that includes that data.
```

For example, the following inventory file includes two groups: `fruits` and
`vegetables`. The `vegetables` group is injected from a separate file using the
`yaml` plugin. Because this plugin is under the `groups` key, it is immediately
resolved when loading inventory:

```yaml
# ~/.puppetlabs/bolt/inventory.yaml
groups:
  - name: fruits
    targets:
      - uri: apple.example.org
        name: apple
      - uri: banana.example.org
        name: banana
  - _plugin: yaml
    filepath: ~/.puppetlabs/etc/bolt/vegetable_inventory.yaml
```

```yaml
# ~/.puppetlabs/etc/bolt/vegetable_inventory.yaml
name: vegetables
targets:
  - uri: carrot.example.org
    name: carrot
  - uri: daikon.example.org
    name: daikon
```

While the `yaml` plugin resolves quickly and has little impact on performance,
plugins that interact with external services (such as the `puppetdb` and

> `aws_inventory` plugins) take longer to resolve. Because of this, it's
> important to consider how your inventory file is structured and where plugins
> are used, as using several plugins to load groups and targets can have a
> significant impact on Bolt's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`aws_inventory` plugins) take longer to resolve. Consider how your inventory
file is structured and where plugins are used. Using several plugins to load groups 
and targets can have a significant impact on Bolt's performance.
```

        message: Enter your Vault password
```

> ### Switch transports between command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Switch transports between commands
```

Reviewer: This section seems a bit out of place in the examples section. Maybe move it below the plugins section?

> Targets configured to use a specific transport in the inventory will use that
> transport whenever Bolt connects to the target, even if a different transport is
> specified using the `transport` command-line option. While switching between
> transports for a target isn't common, there are cases where it is helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Targets configured to use a specific transport in the inventory use that
transport whenever Bolt connects to the target, even if you specify a different 
transport using the `transport` command-line option. While switching between
transports for a target isn't common, there are cases where it is helpful.
```

For example, you might have several targets that use the PCP transport and need
to download files from the targets. Because the PCP transport does not support
downloading files, you need to use the SSH transport instead. Instead of
editing your inventory file to use the SSH transport for this one-off command,

> you can instead use one of the following approaches to switch between transports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use one of the following approaches to switch between transports.
```

#### Using the `env_var` plugin

> The `env_var` plugin can be used to inject the value of an environment variable
> into the inventory file. This allows you to specify a transport on the command
> line and use it to override a default transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `env_var` plugin to inject the value of an environment variable
into the inventory file. This allows you to specify a transport on the command
line and use it to override a default transport.
```

variable when running a command:

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
BOLT_TRANSPORT=ssh bolt file download /var/logs downloads --targets all
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
$env:BOLT_TRANSPORT = 'ssh'
Receive-BoltFile -Source '/var/logs' -Destination 'downloads' -Targets 'all'
Remove-Item Env:\BOLT_TRANSPORT
```

#### Using `bolt-defaults.yaml`

You can specify a default transport for your targets in the user- or
system-level configuration file, `bolt-defaults.yaml`. When Bolt merges
configuration, user- and system-level configuration has a lower precedence
than command-line options. This allows you to configure a default transport
that is used by all targets in your inventory and specify a different
transport as needed.

```yaml
# ~/.puppetlabs/etc/bolt/bolt-defaults.yaml
inventory-config:
  transport: pcp
```

To override the default `pcp` transport, use the `transport` command-line
option:

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt file download /var/logs downloads --targets all --transport ssh
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Receive-BoltFile -Source '/var/logs' -Destination 'downloads' -Targets 'all' -Transport 'ssh'
```

> Note that specifying a default transport in the `bolt-defaults.yaml` file
> will apply to _all_ projects that you run. You can override the default
> transport for specific projects by setting the top-level `config.transport`
> key in the project's inventory file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying a default transport in the `bolt-defaults.yaml` file
applies to _all_ projects that you run. You can override the default
transport for specific projects by setting the top-level `config.transport`
key in the project's inventory file.
```
